# About the database structure

Databases are stored in database files with `.db` file extension. Each database file contains a single database.

Databases consist of two primary things: collections and documents. Collections are containers that hold documents. Documents contain the actual data that can be stored.

Here is an example of the structure of a database:

```json
Database
    +-Metadata
    +-Collections
        +-Collection1
            +-Document1
            +-Document2
            ...
        +-Collection2
            +-Document1
            +-Document2
            ...
        ...
```

## Database

A database has some metadata that describes the database and contains details about it.

Currently a database has:

- `Name`: The name of the database.
- `Description`: The description of the database. This can be changed to whatever text you want.
- `Size`: The size of the database file in bytes.
- `File path`: The file path to the database file.

It also has collections where documents can be inserted.

## Collection

Collections hold documents. A collection has a unique name and documents in it. There cannot be two collections with the same name in one database.

A collection can be created and deleted. Collection can be deleted only when it doesn't have documents. Delete the possible documents before deleting the collection.

## Document

Documents are where database data is stored. A document is like an entity. It has an id that is unique to the collection it belongs to. This id is always generated by the database engine and cannot be created manually. Documents can only be inserted to collections.

A document has fields of key-value pairs. A field has a data type, field name and value. Field name is always a string and value has data based on the data type.

Documents in the same collection don't need to have the same schema. They can contain different number of fields with different names and data types. It is up to the user of the database how they want to use it.

Documents can also follow the same schema, which is recommended when using strongly typed data structures to model documents.

Here is an example document:

```json
{
    [DocumentId] _id: 1
    [Text] "name": "John Smith"
    [Int32] "age": 42
}
```

This document has `_id` field which is generated by the database engine and has data type `DocumentId`. Field `name` has text value "John Smith" and data type `Text`. The last field has name `age` with a numeric value of 42 and data type `Int32`.

Currently documents are very limited but more features will be added in future versions.
